Identified issue that needs to be solved right in the beginning: 
- find a strategy to unambiguously consolidate the numbering of tubulin residues across all available tubulin structures to match their gene/protein numbering of e.g. UniProt

The current issue we are facing while trying to centralize all the pdb structures under a single schema is the numbering (indexing) conventions for tubulion sequence used by groups and bioligists with different background across different PDB structures: some originate from different organisms and genes, some use a historical structure as a reference sequence, some elect to use PDB's insertion codes, some use UniProt numbering, and so on. This leads to a situation where the same residue in different structures may have different numbers, making it difficult to compare or analyze them uniformly. Some numbering schemes (eg. Morisette & Abaali 2023, Tubulin database) try to accommodate this by providing a unified numbering system, but these are not universally adopted and cannot be readily used as a indexing device in software or extended.

Our task therefore is to identify main numbering conventions used by practitioners in the tubulin/MT communities, their origin and reference sequences, whether they cover just certain organisms or apply to many (eg. i gather that human numbering might as well be used for yeast because just empirircally they are similar enough) etc.; establish how these incogruent conventions relate to each other and to the raw PDB numbering. By PDB numbering i mean only the 0-indexed linear numbering of residues in a structural sequence which would be the most natural and convenient "scheme" to use if you didn't know or care about the rest of biology except the strucutre at hand. We then want to develop a class mechanism (later encoded in software) that could "translate" between these different numbering schemes using the raw numbering as the baseline, allowing users to work with tubulin structures in a consistent manner regardless of the original numbering used in the PDB files.

----


Ok let's get a little more concrete so i get a better grasp on what factors of heterogeneity and incongruity are at play given a single hypothetical "new" structure. Let's confine ourselves to the alpha tubulin for now (we'll deal with other types later).

Let's say we get a new (arbitrary) structure of a dimer which contains an alpha tubulin (that's all we know about the sequence). We obviously can inspect the nature of each residue in the atomic model and its raw pdb indices, but that's all we get (adn the organism we know). We want to put this sequence in its correct context of of sequence renumberings so we can build bridges between the sequence, its underlying pdb file and ohter schemes in the literature . Now, what do we have to worry about it?

So far, im thinking, -- we need to have some idea of its isotype first of all.. (does it influence anything at all? do different alpha tubulin isotypes vary in sequence enough to influence the remappings? i imagine that isotypes are an additional complicating factor here because they introduce the fact that not only do the numbering vary between species, but also within species. Im not sure how much of a factor this is and how to deal with it though.).  we need to know its organism.. (let's say its human).. Then, let's say we want to establish a precise connection between each residue in this sequence and the (1) defacto standard bovine strucutre and (2) the "clinical" preferred uniprot numbering. What should our steps be? I guess in the case of the bovine structure we just do seq-to-seq alignment... But fuck. Do they use the raw sequenetial pdb numbering as their scheme? (as in, do we only have to worry about Nogales' raw pdb numbering or do they also do some shenanigans there?). In the case of uniprot you seem to mention multiple "key human references". Why is that and what should my criteria be for deciding which one to pick? 

Are there any additional complicating factors here?